The following is a conversation with Nick Carter,
who is a partner at castle island ventures,
co-founder of coin metrics.io and previously a crypto asset
research analyst at fidelity investments. He's a prominent writer,
speaker and podcaster on topics around decentralized finance and a
spec actually Bitcoin quick mention of our sponsors,
the information athletic greens for Sigmatic and Blinkist.
Check them out in the description to support this podcast.
This conversation with Nick Carter is part of a series of episodes on
cryptocurrency. That is a small journey of exploration I'm on because I,
and decentralized finance and especially Bitcoin fascinating technically and
philosophically,
especially because it may be the very mechanism that achieves a global
decentralization of power,
giving more sovereignty to the individual and making our systems more resilient
to corruption manipulation.
And in general of the darker size of human nature.
Please let me also address something for a few minutes that happened recently.
That's been weighing heavy on me.
If you find me annoying to listen to please skip to the actual conversation with
Nick. I had a recent podcast episode with Anthony Pompano,
where we spoke about Bitcoin and life in general for three hours,
I was curious, inspired, positive, or at least I tried to be,
as I usually do someone clipped out out of context,
a short segment of me mumbling, something about having a PhD.
And I started getting mocked online because that made it convenient for people
to me,
for being yet another quote unquote expert who learns about Bitcoin and
thinks he knows everything.
I almost never mentioned that I have a PhD except to make fun of myself as I
was doing, or at least trying to do in the full context of the conversation.
I brought up grad school as a random example of one of the many journeys I've
taken. That was hard, but where the destination was in itself,
not very useful. I was saying,
I enjoy exploring with a curious mind and am willing to be patient, to learn,
to listen, to humble myself with knowledge, for the sake of knowledge itself.
Grad school was an example of that. The P D means nothing.
At least to me, I never call myself an expert or at least try not to,
because that would be dumb because I know how little I know
I'm not a influencer or a thought leader or whatever else,
silly self aggrandizing label people put on their LinkedIn. I try to be the,
the opposite of what I was mocked for.
I tried to think deeply about the world to look for the beautiful ideas and the
minds of others, and to be inspired by them.
I wanted to say all this because psychologically it struck a bit of a blow.
It made me realize that even when I approach things with love, I may be mocked.
I may be divided. I may be taken out of context or even lied about,
but the growing platform, this is sadly only increasing.
I now have learned that there's people who are waiting for my missteps so they
can point the finger, laugh and say, see,
I told you so that guy's a joke. He's a fraud as a fellow,
human being. The knowledge of this is painful. Yes.
I know people tell me to toughen up.
And my life has been about strengthening my mind in the face of my limits.
The but I refuse to not be fragile and wear my heart and my sleeve.
It's who I am. In some sense, this is the immune system of the internet,
but let us be careful not to destroy the good ones in the process.
The Bitcoin community had to endure many years of attacks from quote unquote
experts and also fraudulent cryptocurrency effort that scam people out of their
money.
This created a powerful immune system that fought the attackers and the
scammers. I understand this.
And I also understand that one of the beautiful aspects of Bitcoin is its
community of humans is decentralized,
but some small part of this community has come to enjoy that us versus them
battles. Sometimes for the sake of the battle in itself,
this happens in political discourse as well. I understand this,
but to my limited mind, it sounds like groupthink,
which has powerful defense mechanisms against bad ideas,
but has dangerous consequences.
If taken too far as many periods of human history that I often talk about
where the us versus them thinking has led to the suffering of many.
Again, I understand the value of this. As many Bitcoin has explained to me,
but it's not the way I, as a sovereign individual, choose to walk in this life.
By the way,
none of this podcast should be treated as financial advice before Nick kindly
gifted me with a hundred dollars worth of Bitcoin in hardware form.
I didn't own any, I'll probably buy some Bitcoin on cash app,
coin base and other platforms,
and also transfer to a hardware wallet just to learn how to do it.
But other than that, I don't necessarily make, make wise investment decisions.
Money is not a motivation for me personally. I try to avoid it. Actually.
I'm grateful for every day. I'm alive,
no matter how much money is in my bank account for long stretches in my life,
that number was very close to zero and I was always fortunate to be free and
happy.
So I encourage you to listen to people much smarter than me for actual good
financial advice here. I'm just exploring ideas.
And as if this has not already gone on too long,
let me please make another comment on the style of discourse among some Bitcoin
maximalist on platforms like Twitter. That in my humble view,
I may be wrong,
but I believe is not conducive to the nuanced empathetic exchange of ideas.
I very much look for and enjoy. Again. I appreciate their style of discourse.
I think I understand the value of it, but it's not my thing.
So I don't want to age in it. I want to hear the quiet voices in the room.
I look for people to inspire each other. And when we disagree,
I look for disagreement that is grounded in respect and empathy.
I think that mockery and diversion destroys the possibility of those nuanced
conversations. It drives away the quiet, thoughtful, empathetic voices.
And I try to give those voices space to be heard, to shine,
to exchange ideas, whether we agree or disagree.
So if I happen to block you on Twitter, I block you with love.
Honestly, I will never speak poorly view or even think poorly of view.
I would love to hang out in person,
give you a big old hug and talk about life over some beers.
If you see or hear me say something stupid,
which I'm sure I do often or something you disagree with,
and you still respect me as a human being,
please show your love as I always do to you,
but also send me some links to blogs, books, videos, podcasts,
where people, why my stated idea may be totally wrong.
I love this kind of long form disagreement.
I humble myself every day by reading books and blogs by people much smarter than
me. Sometimes it strengthens my ideas. Sometimes it totally changes them,
but I always learn,
this is a too long way of saying that I'm here trying to walk with
grace and with an open mind, a bit of patience and always love.
If I make mistakes, cut me some slack. Like you,
I'm only human allegedly.